I personally don't think monetizing
podcasts is a right approach
let's give away everything for free and
just go after a massive tab
Tam is total addressable Market
and you promote that not someone else's
just your own
[Music]
all right so we want to talk about how
podcasting can produce lucrative
monetization models first of all for
this podcast the way we want to start
this one is talk about the typical
monetization models that you might know
about and then we want to talk about
different ideas that you can pursue if
you want to start a podcast so
um I look at podcasting a little bit
differently I personally don't think
monetizing podcasts is a right approach
Eric and I may differ on this one a
little bit uh if it was up to me I
wouldn't care to monetize one single
media channel whether it's podcasting uh
blogging social media or any of them I
think the better approaches you find a
much bigger Tam and a much bigger
product or service and you promote that
not someone else's just your own Tam is
total addressable market so for example
AI is a tam how how much will businesses
spend on AI a design is another tab
people spend money on tools like canva
Adobe right marketing ads is or
advertising is another Tam it's a
massive one look at Google look at the
television networks look at Facebook
marketing Services is another Tam ex wpp
Ad Agency like Omnicom as well or Eric
single grain or mine NP digital but the
point is the bigger the market the
easier it is to make money because it's
really hard to gather
you know 50 percent of a one million
dollar market but on the flip side if
you're in a hundred billion dollar
market it's much easier to conquer and
penetrate maybe 0.1 and you'll make way
more money than if you go after a
million dollar market and you try to you
know dominate 50 of it it's really hard
to be the leader in any Market but
what's easier is to go after a really
big market and just take a really really
really small fraction and that's been my
business model uh I think it's worked
out really well Eric has somewhat of a
similar model but we just try to keep
giving away more and more stuff for free
and we try to monetize from
on our end we have SMB accounts or
clients as well as Fortune 1000 but we
really make our money from Fortune 1000
or Global 1000 whatever you want to end
up calling it
um like I'm in Brazil right now so
instead of worrying about how much am I
going to get paid to speak at a
conference which I can charge your arm
and a leg we still get a lot of
companies hitting me up saying hey Neil
will give you 50 Grand to talk don't
really care about that I want the Right
audience you know we just got hit up by
a company who's valued over a billion
dollars they raised a few hundred
million they're like we have offices all
over the world I think they have over 20
offices like we want Neil to go and talk
to each one of our offices and bring in
our partners it doesn't matter if that
contract and I'm saying I'm not saying
they'll pay me this but let's say if
they'll pay me a million bucks
I'm not saying that's worth it or it's
not worth it honestly I wouldn't do it
for a million dollars but the main
reason being is
in their offices if they bring their
Partners their Partners none of them
we've already looked at it or majority
or 99 of them won't be ideal customers
I'm better off speaking for free at
conferences and getting set up with
meetings with like companies like
Procter Gamble and Nestle and Michelin
and whirlpool and the list goes on and
on because one of those contracts could
be a multi-million dollar contract and I
would make more money from that in the
long run than just focusing on speaking
for money and monetizing quote unquote
Media or brand value in smaller ways and
that's why I'm a big believer in which
just give away everything for free and
just go after a massive Tam and focus on
that and nothing else
if I were to thread this all together
what we're really talking about at the
end of the day is you can take the
short-term money which is could be ads
or you can go for the long term which
usually has bigger money and so I
believe that if you have a significant
podcast and it doesn't even need to be
that big but you if you have strong mind
share for a really high net worth
audience then you can actually take some
Equity inside of the company if you
believe it's doing really well by the
way if you've got a really cool company
it's growing really quickly send Neil
now your numbers maybe we'll do some
we'll do some ads for Equity yeah that's
what we'll call it AFE ads for Equity
you heard it here first now if you have
any questions leave a comment below I'm
here to answer them and help you out if
you enjoyed the video like it share tell
people about it thank you very much